### Prerequisites

A Data Product should already exist in order to attach the new components to it.

### Component Basic Information

This section includes the basic information that any Component of Witboost must have:

- Name: Required name used for display purposes on your Data Product
- Fully Qualified Name: Storage Area fully qualified name, this is optional as will be generated by the system if not given by you
- Description: A short description to help others understand what this Storage Area is for.
- Domain: The Domain of the Data Product this Storage Area belongs to. Be sure to choose it correctly as is a fundamental part of the Storage Area and cannot be changed afterwards.
- Data Product: The Data Product this Storage Area belongs to, be sure to choose the right one.
- Identifier: Unique ID for this new entity inside the domain. Don't worry to fill this field, it will be automatically filled for you.
- Development Group: Development group of this Data Product. Don't worry to fill this field, it will be automatically filled for you.
- Depends On: If you want your Storage Area to depend on other components from the Data Product, you can choose this option (Optional).

*Example:*

| Field name              | Example value                                                                                          |
|:------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Name**                | Snowflake Vaccinations Storage                                                                         |
| **Description**         | Creates the vaccinations schema for this Data Product                                                  |
| **Domain**              | domain:healthcare                                                                                      |
| **Data Product**        | system:healthcare.vaccinationsdp.0                                                                     |
| ***Identifier***        | Will look something like this: *healthcare.vaccinationsdp.0.snowflake-vaccinations-storage*            |
| ***Development Group*** | Might look something like this: *group:datameshplatform* Depends on the Data Product development group |

### Snowflake Deployment Information

- Database: Name of the Database in the Snowflake. If left empty the Domain name will be set as default value.
- Schema: Name of the Schema inside a snowflake database. If left empty, the value `<DP_name>_<DP_majorversion>` will be set as default value.
- Table Name: Name of the table inside the specified Snowflake schema.

If you specify custom values (different from default ones) **you will need to remember them and insert the same values on the Airbyte component**, since we are assuming that the Airbyte component will store the data and create the related tables on the storage location provided by this component.

*Example:*

| Field name     | Example value      |
|:---------------|:-------------------|
| **Database**   | HEALTHCARE         |
| **Schema**     | vaccinationsdp     |
| **Table Name** | vaccinations_clean |


### Provide Information about Schema

The information that needs to be filled here is explained below:

- Column Name: Name of the column inside the table.
- Column Data Type: Data Type of the column.
- Constraint: Type of constraint that can be defined on the column.
- Column Data Length: Length of a string / binary value. For strings, the length is the number of characters.
- Column Precision: Total number of digits allowed (in case of **NUMERIC** Data Type). Minimum allowed precision is 1.
- Column Scale: Number of digits allowed to the right of the decimal point (in case of **NUMERIC** Data Type). Minimum allowed scale is 0.

Below are the list of data types that are currently supported and are widely used in our use-case. They are -

- TEXT
- NUMBER
- DATE
- BOOLEAN

If any need arises in the future to expand the current list of data types, we can do so comfortably.

*Example:*

| Name                                    | Data Type | Constraint  | Data Length | Precision | Scale |
|:----------------------------------------|:----------|:------------|:------------|:----------|:------|
| _date_                                  | DATE      | PRIMARY_KEY | -           | -         | -     |
| _location_key_                          | TEXT      | PRIMARY_KEY | -           | -         | -     |
| _new_persons_vaccinated_                | NUMBER    | -           | -           | -         | -     |
| _new_persons_fully_vaccinated_          | NUMBER    | -           | -           | -         | -     |
| _new_vaccine_doses_administered_        | NUMBER    | -           | -           | -         | -     |
| _cumulative_persons_vaccinated_         | NUMBER    | -           | -           | -         | -     |
| _cumulative_persons_fully_vaccinated_   | NUMBER    | -           | -           | -         | -     |
| _cumulative_vaccine_doses_administered_ | NUMBER    | -           | -           | -         | -     |

If multiple columns are marked as `PRIMARY_KEY`, a composite primary key will be created.

After this step, the system will show you the summary of the information provided. You can go back and edit them if you notice any mistake, otherwise you can go ahead and create the Component.

After clicking on **"Create"**, the Component registration will start. If no errors occur, it will go through the 3 phases (Fetching, Publishing and Registering) and it will show you the links to the newly created repository inside GitLab and the new Data Product Component in the Builder Catalog.

    > Since the tables and views are created at deployment time and not at running time, remember to **always** add here all the tables you will use in the data transformation stages (SQL or dbt), and in the Output Port.